---
layout:     project
title:      Starfall
summary:    A challenging game played by navigating a path as fast as you can.
category:
 - websites
 - games
tags:       websites games
gallery-images:
 - file: starfall_-or8.png
   alt: Starfall
   link: http://yays.co/starfall
---

<div class="text-center color--2 listing__hidden" markdown="1">
# [Play Now<i class="fa fa-play-circle"></i>](http://yays.co/starfall)
</div>

# What is this?
I used to enjoy watching my talented friend [Finnbar Bacall](https://github.com/fbacall) play [Flash Flash Revolution](http://www.flashflashrevolution.com/) with no sound.
Similarly, this game tries to derive enjoyment from skillfully tapping out a pattern as quickly as possible.
<!--readmore-->

Running in a JS powered canvas, the levels are cleverly generated from images - for example, the pictured level 11 is created from this image:

{{ 'starfall_lv11.png' | img }}


## Ingredients
* Level data dynamically generated from drawn images.
* Pure handwritten canvas JavaScript - no libraries or engines!

## Method
I realised that generating a 2D array of level data from a series of small images is actually not at all intensive and has the benefit of them being dead easy to modify.
Writing all the JavaScript from scratch was a challenge of course but is always fun and makes it easy to comprehend the project as a whole, from top to bottom inside my brain.
Does that make sense?
I went for an interesting approach whereby it doesn't have as strict of a gameloop as most games and for the most part, updates on keypresses.

## Conclusions
Not having a constant tick for the background makes it render in a jumpy way but I found it kinda charming, along with how all the stars are generated with random sizes and numbers of points. Having generative content in games is just.. the hardest thing to get right.. but when it works, it works well!

## Pass or Fail?
**Pass**, absolutely!
The 'Insane' mode is set with time limits that are basically my own top scores. It is inherently a challenging game that I spent a lot of time trying to balance for different users and I can't decide if I succeeded or not. Nor can I decide if I succeeded with the graphics of the game as a whole but all considered, it's a strong **pass**.